feat(docs): Writing tutorials (#157)
kestra-io/kestra.io: docs/tutorial/inputs/README.md

---
order: 2
---

# Inputs

> Flows can have Input. They are parameters provided when starting a flow. They help make your flow more dynamic and reusable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flows can have Inputs. They are parameters provided when starting a flow. They help make your flow more dynamic and reusable.
```

## Defining inputs

> We defined Inputs in the `inputs` section of the flow file. They must have a `name` and a `type`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We defined Inputs in the `inputs` section of the flow. They must have a `name` and a `type`.
```

You can also set a `default` value.

```yaml
inputs:
  - name: isTutorial
    type: BOOLEAN
    default: true
```

| Type    | Description                                                            |
|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| STRING  | No control is done on this input type (no parsing), can be any string. |
| INT     | Must be a valid integer (without any decimals).                        |

> | BOOLEAN | Must be a valid true or false as string.                               |

Reviewer: Can you replace with something like "Kestra support multiple input types STRING, INT, BOOLEAN, FILE, ..."
Avoid table like this as a tutorial is better if you wan read it fluently.

Discover more types on the [input documentation](https://kestra.io/docs/developer-guide/flow/inputs).

## Accessing inputs

Kestra includes a templating engine to access variables in your flow. Use the <code v-pre>{{ variable }}</code> syntax to access them.
Find more on the [variable documentation.](../../developer-guide/variables/README.md)

Inputs can be accessed in the flow using the <code v-pre>{{ inputs.name }}</code> syntax.

## Add inputs to your flow

> In our example, we will provide the URL of the CSV file we want to download in Input. But we will set a default value if the user doesn't provide it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our example, we will provide the URL of the CSV file we want to download in an Input, and we will set a default value if the user doesn't provide one.
```
